Today, we will discuss
Neural Networks,
a flexible and powerful class
of nonlinear function
approximators.
Reinforce in learning
with neural networks
has been used to create
a world champion go
player to create Atari agents
capable of superhuman
performance,
and even a help with
autonomous cars.
By the end of this video,
you'll be able to
understand feed forward
neural networks to find
an activation function,
and understand how
a neural network
is a parameterized function.
Let's walk through
a simple neural network.
Each of these circles represents
nodes in the network.
Each of the lines represents
connections between nodes.
The nodes are
organized into layers.
When new data comes in,
it starts in the input
layer and is sent
through the connections to
the next layer of nodes.
This layer performs
some computation on
the data then sends
the results to the next layer.
This process continues until
the last layer produces
the final output.
We call this a feed forward
neural network because
the data always moves
forward through the layers.
Non of the connections
go back to the network.
If they did, then
the nodes output could
influence its own input.
Such a neural network is
called a recurrent
neural network.
When data is passed
through a connection,
a weight is applied.
The node then sums up each
of its weighted inputs,
and apply some activation
function to this sum.
The activation function is
often a nonlinear transformation.
Common activation functions
include sigmoidal functions,
like tan h or
the logistic function,
rectified linear units or ReLU,
or even thresholding units.
Let's take a look at how
to write a feed forward
pass of a neural network
mathematically.
At each node we have two vectors,
the inputs and the weights
for each input.
The first subscript refers to
the node that
connection comes from.
The second subscript refers to
the node the
connection feeds into.
We don't product the weights
with the input and
pass the result through
the activation function.
Notice here that S
is a row vector,
so we do not need to write
the dot-product with a transpose.
Each layer consists
of many such nodes.
A neural network is just a
parameterized function
though this can be a bit
hard to see by thinking of
it as a collection
of connected nodes.
To see this more explicitly,
let's rewrite the operations in
the network using
matrix vector multiplication.
We can view the inputs to
a layer as a row vector,
and the weights for
that layer as a matrix.
In other words, as
this two-dimensional array.
We can compute the output of
an entire layer using
matrix multiplication.
We then apply
our activation function
to each element of
the outputted vector.
If this output isn't
the final layer,
this output vector becomes
the input to the next layer,
and we repeat the process.
That's it for this video.
We explained how neural networks
consists of a network of
nodes which process and
pass information along,
and discussed how a feed
forward neural network is
a parameterized function.
See you next time.